# Data set 1: Hourly energy consumption data
This data set contains hourly readings of the energy consumption taken by specialized meters installed by VTT (Technical Research Centre of Finland) on 40 different test sites in the cities of Espoo and Helsinki. Each site has at least one meter installed. Each installed meter on a particular site can record consumption of a specific energy type on an hourly basis. In some cases, a test site may have more than one meter even for same energy type. There are four energy types considered for test sites i.e. Electricity, Heating, Water and Reactive power. We consider only electricity and heating in the scope of this project. The heating usage is explained in terms of the electricity consumed to produce heating.  In the rest of this chapter, energy types will be termed as \\"features\\" and each record representing hourly consumption of a feature will be called an \\"observation\\"".
There are approximately 1.2 million observations taken from the 144 installed meters on 40 different sites, during the 11 months period between 1st January 2013 until 30th November 2013.  Each row in the data represents an observation with the following information in exact sequence separated by commas: 

\\"Device ID\\",\\"Destination Address\\",\\"Building Name\\", \\"Meter\\", \\"type\\", \\"date\\", \\"hour\\", \\"Consumption\\"

A ``Device ID'' is the unique id for each installed device. To avoid confusion, the sites are being termed as buildings in the rest of the document. For sake of anonymity both ``Destination Address'' and the ``Building Name'' fields are masked as BuildingXX (where XX ranges from  01 to 40). ``Meter'' shows the nth number of the meter inside the same building. The field ``type'' labels the feature, while ``date'' refers to the calendar day in the format of YYYYMMDD, ``hour'' is the hour number of the day (0 to 23) and the ``Consumption'' is the consumption of the feature in respective units. Only electricity and electricity consumed for heating is considered in this paper. To fix the scale of consumption to Kilo Watt Hour, each consumption value should be divided by 100.

# Data set 2: Device level data
This data set contains device level consumption of the electricity collected from a residential apartment included as a test site for the VTT's Green Campus initiative. Device level means that the electricity consumption was collected for various home appliances used in that apartment. These appliances were differentiated on the basis of their respective electrical signal thumbprint using NIALM metering devices described in section \ref{greencamp}. The data was collected from 1st May 2013 to 30th April 2014 in form of a text file from the VTT's data webservice. The different fields in the data are separated by ``;''. The data set has the following fields.

``Device'';``Timestamp'';``Consumption(Wh)''

The ``Device'' field is a label for the respective home appliance e.g. refrigerator, freezer, TV, stove etc. ``Timestamp'' contains the date, hour, minutes and seconds of the recorded data in the  YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS format. The ``Consumption\((Wh)\)'' field contains the value of electricity consumed and recorded at that instance of time. The devices that are used on demand for example a TV, stove, coffee maker etc. records the consumption values right after the end of the respective usage session. For continuously used devices like refrigerators and freezers etc. NIALM devices have their inbuilt mechanism to keep recording the data.